# CSCE5216_Skin_Lesion_Classifier_Project_Code
Final project abstract for CSCE 5216 course in Pattern Recognition at University of North Texas:

The objective of this project is to develop an image classification system using a convolutional neural network (CNN model) that can accurately identify skin lesion images. The classification system can be utilized to identify the skin lesion with a percentage indicating how confident the classification system is of observing a particular type of skin lesion presented. Dermatologists use their specialized knowledge and experience to identify suspicious lesions on patients during annual skin exams or patient visits. The dermatologist can monitor the lesion over time to detect any changes or opt to surgically remove the lesion if the lesion could be harmful to the patient. If the dermatologist is suspicious of the lesion, the dermatologist may remove a part of the lesion and send the sample to a pathologist for further testing to determine if the lesion is benign (non-cancerous) or malignant (cancerous). This type of system could hypothetically assist dermatologists in detecting potential skin cancer or other skin diseases, but this iteration of the project is not intended for actual medical use or treatment due to limitations with the model accuracy and model training.
Another component that this proposed solution can improve is patient education through written notes. Dermatologists provide written notes to their patients on the diagnosis, any medicines to take, and the treatment plan based on the skin lesion observed. These notes can often be time-consuming and can strain the resources of the dermatologist preventing them
     
from fully attending to patients. To assist with this administrative part of the patient education, the skin lesion classifier outputs a detailed description of the predicted skin lesion type and more information on possible treatment options for the patient.
